JOURNEY INSTRUCTION MANUAL

* Preface

Pestilence and disease, famine and drought - all of these plague your
land. But nothing is known of their cause, and hope is fading. A party
is assembled to seek the aid of a distant Wizard in the faint hope that
he can offer assistance. But the party is not heard from again and, in
desperation, another party is sent, the one you are about to lead on a
fateful Journey into the unknown.

Whether your party meets the fate of its predecessors, or returns
triumphant, is in your hands.  Your party of four is led by Bergon,
a strong and fair man, and a carpenter by trade. The Wizard, Praxix,
wise yet unpredictable, provides the party with knowledge of lore and
magic. Esher, the well-respected (if somewhat curmudgeonly) physician, has
also been asked to make the trek. Finally, Tag, apprentice food merchant, has
agreed to tend to the party's provisions and make a diary of its adventures.

In Journey, the decisions you make, for the party and its members, are
woven into an epic tale of danger and mystery, of breathtaking beauty
and heartbreaking loss, of desperate struggle and, finally, of ultimate
triumph.  The tale is told by Tag, and the story of the Journey is seen
through his eyes.

Your Journey will provide you with many hours of enjoyment and many
hundreds of difficult decisions. But unlike other games you may have
played, there are virtually no dead ends. Anything action you take
will advance the story toward one of its many endings.  But
to lead the party to its ultimate victory is a challenge worthy of
only the bravest and most clever. 

* Getting Started

* Load the Game

If this is your first time playing Journey, you should read the Reference
Section at the end of this manual for loading instructions specific to your
computer. Also, it would be prudent to make a backup copy of the disk(s)
that came in your game package.

* The Journey Screen

When you have successfully loaded Journey, your screen will look something
like this:

<start screen>
<the three major areas should be labelled A, B, and C>

You will note that the Journey screen is divided into three distinct
areas.

A) The story of the Journey will appear here. Frequently, however, there is
more to be told than can fit within this area. In that case, the word "MORE"
will appear at the bottom and you can view the rest by pressing any key on
your keyboard (or clicking your mouse.)

B) You will glimpse the world of Journey through the handsome illustrations
that appear here.

C) All of your selections while playing Journey will be made in this area,
which is itself divided into three sections, described below.

* Selection Methods

Selections can be made with your mouse, joystick, or keyboard. If you
have two of these devices (e.g. a mouse and a keyboard), you can make
selections with either of them or both.

Mouse: Point at, then click on, your desired selection.

Joystick: Move the joystick to highlight your desired selection, then
press the joystick button.

Keyboard: Use the arrow keys to highlight your desired selection, then
press the RETURN or ENTER key.

* The Initial Menu

On the startup screen, five options are displayed in the lower left
corner.

Start: Sets you off on your Journey. 

Background: Relates the events leading up to your Journey. If you are
playing for the first time, it would be worthwhile to read this
prologue before selecting "Start."

Change Name: Allows you to personalize your Journey by renaming the
narrator of the story from Tag to one of your own choosing.

Help: Summarizes these instructions.

Game: Displays a group of options that do not affect the story, but rather
the play of the game (e.g. Saving your place, making a transcript, etc.)

* Playing the Game

After you have selected "Start", your screen should look something like
this:

<2nd screen>

In playing Journey, you have the task of making decisions not only for
your party of characters as a group, but as individuals as well.  As each
decision is made, the story will move inexorably forward.

Looking at the bottom portion of the screen, you will see that it is divided
into three areas.

A) The first column lists the "Party Commands," those actions which are
taken by your entire party as a group.  Most often, this will involve
moving from one place to another.  On the screen (above?,) "Proceed"
would be used to continue down the road and "Enter" would be used to
enter the provisioner's shop.

B) The second column lists the members of your party.  When your Journey
begins, there are four: Bergon, Praxix, Esher, and Tag (the narrator.)
During the course of your Journey, characters may be added (by choice)
and lost (rarely by choice); all such changes will be reflected here.

C) To the right of the characters' names are those actions that the
characters can take at any given moment.  On the screen (above?,) you
will see that Bergon can get the advice of the group ("Get Advice"), Praxix
can cast a spell ("Cast"), and Tag can drop things ("Drop") and check on what
he's carrying ("Inventory.)  These options change frequently during play
to reflect the circumstances of the story (e.g. Tag would have an option to
"Take" something, if there were anything on the ground worth taking.)

Many of the actions that can be taken require additional information
(e.g. which spell to cast, which object to take, which legend to tell.)
In this case, a list of possibilities will appear, as in the example
(below?) in which Praxix is about to cast a spell.  Simply select
your choice from the list, or select "[cancel]" to change your mind
about taking that course of action.

<bottom screen showing Cast options>

*Note*
The keyboard can also be used as a shortcut in making selections, by
simply typing the first letter of your selection. However, the highlight
bar must be in the Party Command area to choose a party command or in
the Individual Command area to chose an individual command.  The spacebar
can be used to quickly jump between these two areas. The option to
"cancel" can be selected with your backspace key.

* Hints - The Musings Option

Your Journey will be long and arduous, and it is unlikely that you
will see it through to a happy conclusion until you have played
for some time. Do not fear: all of the obstacles and pitfalls you face
can be overcome in a logical manner, yet some may baffle even the most
sophisticated player.

If you should reach an unsatisfactory ending, you will have the option
of reading some of the narrator's "musings," providing thoughts
made in hindsight about the decisions made during the Journey. Each "musing"
refers to a particular place or event in the story, and you should refer
to those for which you need for some additional guidance. Of course,
rather than using these musings right away, it would be more enjoyable
to first experiment with different courses of action.

* The Game Option

The "Game" option is always available as the last of the Party
Commands, at the lower left of the screen.  Selecting this option displays
a menu of control functions that have no direct effect upon the story, but
rather upon the playing of the game.  The options are:

Save: Allows you to make a "snapshot" of your position
in the story (a bookmark, if you will) so that you may return to that
precise spot in the story at a later time.  Unlike other games you
may have played, there are virtually no dead ends in Journey, and
therefore no need to "Save" your game frequently; indeed, you will
probably enjoy the flow of the story more if you avoid using "Save"
altogether during your first times through the story.

The exact procedure for making a "Save" varies between computers, so
you should check the Refernce Section for the correct procedure for
your machine. 

Restore: Use this option to return to a previously "Saved" position.
As with "Save," the exact procedure will vary between computers.

End Session: If you wish to end your play of the game, either by
quitting ("Quit") or by starting over from the beginning ("Start Over",)
select this option. Another menu will be displayed allowing you to
choose between these two options.

Controls: Causes the controls menu to be displayed.  The
controls are:

Script On: This allows you to use your printer to make a transcript
of the story. You may wish to use this feature to aid your memory
about events earlier in the story, or just to have a souvenir of
your Journey.  If you select "Controls" while you are already
making a transcript, this option will become "Script Off," and can
be used to end your transcript.

Refresh: This option refreshes the screen display, in the unlikely
event that it should become garbled by a power glitch or other like
nuisance.

Version: This will display the release version of Journey as well
as the serial number of your copy of the game. Please include this
information in any call to Customer Service.

Check Disk: This option performs a check on the contents of your game
disk(s) to ensure that they are undamaged. If you suspect a problem
with your disk, use this option to "verify" its contents. If the
disk checks out "Ok," then the problem is either in your computer's
hardware or is a bug in the game. 

*Note*
All of the Game Menu and Controls Menu options can be accessed
with function keys (if your machine happens to have them.) The
keys are defined as follows: F1 - Save; F2 - Restore; F3 - Start Over;
F4 - Quit; F5 - Script on/off; F6 - Refresh; F7 - Version.  In
the case of Start Over and Quit, it will be necessary to confirm
your choice by hitting the same key again.

* Tips for Enjoying Journey

- Try to play as much as possible without using "Save" - remember,
all puzzles can be solved logically and without resort to using
"brute force."  If you become "stuck," refer to the musings option
after reaching an ending.

- As a convenience, you way wish to make "Saves" every so often in the
story.  Certainly, it would be appropriate to make a "Save" each time
you come before the Wizard Astrix.   

- There are no "dead ends" in Journey; feel free to experiment and
take chances.

- Utilize the options available to you; if more than one character can
take the same action (e.g. examining something,) do not assume that the
result will be the same. 

- If you are using a keyboard, remember the available shortcuts (spacebar
to move between Party and Individual Commands, and using the first
letter of choices to make a selection.)

* We're Never Satisfied
As with other games, except:  Attn: Dread Lord 

* If You Have Technical Problems
As with other games.

* About the Author

Marc Blank, a graduate of MIT and the Albert Einstein College of Medicine,
is one of the original founders of Infocom. He co-authored the original
mainframe version of Zork in 1977 at MIT, and went on to become one of
the pioneers in the field of interactive fiction. At Infocom, he
co-authored the Zork Trilogy and Enchanter, and was the sole author
of Deadline, the first interactive mystery, and Border Zone, Infocom's
first tale of intrigue. Marc considers Journey to be his second greatest
departure from traditional interactive fiction, the first being his
move to Southern California in 1986.

Marc lives in the little town of Agua Dulce, California, with his
wife, Cezanne, and a growing number of feline offspring.  With any
luck, he's finished mowing his lawn and pulling weeds from the garden,
and has happily gone back to work.

* Copyright, etc.
As with other games, except:
Journey and Border Zone are trademarks of Infocom, Inc.  Zork, Enchanter,
and Deadline are registered trademarks of Infocom, Inc.